<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:11pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:12pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:21pt Calibri, sans-serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 25 July 2024 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font0">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative), Chris Taylor (Principal), Finn Bowbyes (Student Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Apologies: </span><span class="font0">Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Taneora Ryall (Parent Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">In attendance: </span><span class="font0">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Karen opened the meeting with a karakia.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received. Finn was advised that Nadine is the returning officer for the upcoming student elections.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Student Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">F Bowbyes / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Staff Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Kamaia gave a verbal report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The start of the new term feels good. There were 30 staff at waiata practice. The Guidance team are settling in to their new space.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Staff Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Renata / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark11"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark12"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris gave an update on the student suspended at the end of last term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">There has been significant damage done to the building at Lyriks Activity Centre (water damage from rats chewing through water pipes). The Director of Lyriks has the repairs well in hand and they are looking to reopen on Monday.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board approved Stephen Perry's two weeks paternity leave, coming up later this year.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris spoke to the latest attendance statistics from the Ministry of Education. Milica requested comparisons with these statistics and statistics from last year, term by term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark13"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark14"></a>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub-committee reports</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The agenda and documents from the scheduled Resource Committee meeting of Monday 22 July were tabled and discussed. The meeting was unable to go ahead and so Chris summarised the agenda and sought the Board's approval for the following:</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed and approved the koha (pressie cards) for the helpers (students) that moved furniture during the school holidays.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the purchase of pressie cards up to the value of $1,000 as koha for the students that assisted with the admin block move.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Shepherd/K Renata</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed the notice from Pourato and acknowledged that the kura is currently overstaffed. The overstaffing has been previously approved by the Board and is as planned. Karen asked Chris to send her a screenshot of the Pourato notice.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris to discuss with his supervisor his staffing figures to ensure he is on the right track.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris assured Karen that the builders and trades that have worked so hard on Te Ara-taki have been acknowledged and thanked for their efforts. Karen would like Chris to pass on the Board's thanks to any and all that have been involved in the project.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Resource Committee Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">CTaylor/F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark15"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark16"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the previous meeting</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the June 2024 Board meeting as a true and accurate record.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / K Shepherd</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark17"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark18"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">No correspondence.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark19"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark20"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 7:42pm. </span><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / C Taylor</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 8:46pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark21"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark22"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span></h3></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">a) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The three Deputy Principal's will be attending the August Board meeting to discuss their respective oversight areas.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">b) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Milica will invite the NZSTA suspension training representative to the September Board meeting.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">c) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At the October Board meeting the Board will review the various Committees, what Committees we need and why.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">d) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Karen asked that the Resource Committee meetings change to a Tuesday night.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">e) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nadine to ask the Board members to send through a profile photo of themselves for the website.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">f) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Milica went through and updated the Action Register.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Meeting concluded at 9:20pm with a karakia.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Signed</span></p>
<div><img src="BOT-Meeting-25-July-2024-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-25-July-2024-Signed-1.jpg" alt="" style="width:118pt;height:31pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<p><span class="font0">2</span></p>
</body>
</html>