<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:7pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:10pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:12pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font3 { font:21pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font4 { font:9pt Times New Roman, serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font3" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 21 March 2024 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font1">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Chris Taylor (Principal), Finn Bowbyes (Student Representative), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative),</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;">Absent: </span><span class="font1">Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Taneora Ryall (Parent Representative), Te Ana Fowell (Coopted Member)</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;">In attendance: </span><span class="font1">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome and Karakia</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">Milica welcomed everyone and acknowledged the handover of the Presiding Member role from Derek to herself. Apologies were received from Karen and Taneroa.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Loudeen lead the karakia.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Planning session</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">Milica is going to create a calendar for the Board for the year, a living Word document of what is coming up and what the Board should be working on/addressing throughout the year.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Milica went round the table asking for contributions/ideas of what the Board would like to see and add to the calendar:</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;NZSTA recommended actions</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Admin block opening</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Election cycle (2025)</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chris to forward to Milica relevant school activities/events that the Board would like to know about and or attend</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's appraisal (NZSTA formulated)</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Board meeting invitation to HODs (x6)</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ERO</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Strategic Plan updates (next meeting a Variance Report is due)</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Regular pastoral reports from Kamaia and her team.</span></p></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Board sign-offs required</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark11"></a>Budget</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">The 2024 Budget had been recirculated as requested after the last Board meeting in February.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the 2024 Budget.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / Finn Bowbyes</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark12"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark13"></a>Limited authority to approve expenditures in 2024 and beyond</span></h3>
<p><span class="font1">Chris is seeking approval from the Board of Trustees for the following positions within the</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">College to sign off budgeted amounts accordingly:</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font1">1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the Accounts Administrator to approve expenditure of up to $500 for preallocated department budgets only</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the Business Manager to approve expenditure of up to $5,000 for pre-allocated department budgets only</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the Principal to approve expenditure of up to $15,000 with a counter signature of the Business Manager for pre-allocated budgeted expenses</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For the Board Chairperson to approve building expenditures that the Board has already approved on the Ministry of Education 'Salesforce' platform.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">The Board discussed the Limited Authorities and confirmed that once the budget is approved by the Board, then all budgeted expenditure is approved.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Nic created a document when he was Principal - Nadine to locate this to ensure we're not missing anything.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">If expenditure is outside the budget and over $20,000 it must be discussed and approved by the Resource Committee.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">The Resource Committee must report to the BOT on variances and expenditure over $15,000.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Limited authorities to approve expenditures in 2024 and beyond as written, discussed and amended.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / L Parsons</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;">Strategic Plan</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Chris is seeking approval from the Board for the 2024 Strategic Plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Loudeen suggested that the Board approves the plan in one week's time, via email, to enable all Board members the time to review. Finn agreed to Loudeen's suggestion.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">The Strategic Plan needs to be amended to reflect the change of Presiding Member.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark14"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark15"></a>Cell Phone Policy</span></h3>
<p><span class="font1">The Cell Phone Policy was recirculated as requested at the February meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Chris moved that the BOT accepts the proposed Cell Phone Policy as written and submitted.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark16"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark17"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In Committee</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark18"></a>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">Finn summarised his report and shared his feedback on the Attendance letter that went out to whanau.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Chris said he had received many emails and calls regarding the letter and that the purpose of the letter was to raise awareness of the importance of attendance and to start conversation with the community.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Kamaia personally shared the impact of the letter on her family.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Feedback on the attendance letter has been mixed. The Board discussed at length the nature of the letter and the way in which it was worded and the affect that it had on students and their families.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Loudeen emphasised the need for a more positive spin or focus and that the communication should be addressing the students that are at 40 - 60% attendance. Phone calls or visits to families with poor attendance rates works better. Loudeen shared her disappointment that there is no funding for addressing attendance.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Derek said as a parent he didn't read the emails from the school and that this may be the case with other whanau.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Chris acknowledged the feedback and the opinions of the Board and would consider alternative ways to address and communicate attendance rates.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">It was suggested that there would be further discussion at the next meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Student Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">F Bowbyes / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark19"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark20"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Staff Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">No report this month.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark21"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark22"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">Chris summarised his report for those that had not yet read it.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark23"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark24"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub Committee Reports</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">No reports this month.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark25"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark26"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the meeting held 29 February 2024</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">The Board raised two errors with the minutes. Nadine to amend the minutes accordingly. The Board asked Nadine to add more detail to the minutes moving forward.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the amended minutes of the meeting held on 29 February 2024.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / D Saumolia</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark27"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark28"></a>10. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">There is no correspondence to report.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark29"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark30"></a>11. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span></h3></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chris proposed Matariki weekend for the Admin Block opening. Completion date is 21 June. The Board agreed to celebrating the opening at sunrise on Saturday 29 June 2024.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;School lunches - we await the Government's decision. Links to a petition to continue the lunches have been circulated on the College's social media - it is crucial to continue to raise awareness of the importance of school lunches for our community. The Board questioned whether the school could continue the lunches if they are discontinued by Government?</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afio Mai evening - this was summarised in the Principal's report.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font1">• &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Items for next meeting - Sport uniform audit, Jacket sizing, Board member photos, School uniform review.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font1">Loudeen closed the meeting with a karakia and best wishes for the Easter break.</span></p>
<p><span class="font1">Meeting concluded at 9:10pm</span></p><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-21-March-2024-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-21-March-2024-Signed-1.png" alt="" style="width:373pt;height:49pt;">
<p><span class="font0">l:\Principal\BOT\BOT Minutes 2024\BOT Meeting Minutes 21 March 2024 Draft.docx</span></p>
<p><span class="font4">4</span></p>
</body>
</html>