<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:11pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:13pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:22pt Calibri, sans-serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 27 February 2025 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font0">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Chris Taylor (Principal), Liana Fecteau (Student Representative), Zinh Yee Liew (Co-opted), Daniel Bowbyes (Co-opted)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Apologies: </span><span class="font0">Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">In attendance: </span><span class="font0">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Milica opened the meeting with a karakia and welcomed all those in attendance.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Milica reviewed and the Board discussed an addition to the conflict-of-interest register.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel commented in favour of the new format of the Principal’s Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Zinh asked about WIFI access for Board members when they are onsite.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Resource Committee members summarised the 2025 Budget and confirmed their thorough review and approval. The budget has been simplified and is now much easier to understand. Currently, a deficit of approximately $180k is forecast.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approve the 2025 Budget.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;text-decoration:underline;">C</span><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;"> Taylor / D Bowbyes</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Milica asked Chris to consider creating a three-to-five year financial plan/forecast, factoring in where and how he would like the school to invest. Chris confirmed he is currently working on the 2025 Annual Plan with intention to create a longer term 'business plan'. Loudeen agreed, saying planning ahead for the next cohort is important.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris mentioned three areas of planning focus - roll growth (zoning), the Marae, and the ten-year property plan (still waiting on the MOE for this).</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Board to follow up on this discussion. Chris to report/come back to the Board once more information/longerterm plan shapes up.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris had a sample of the College vest that is a proposed addition to the school uniform. The cost of the vest has been quoted at $65. The Board asked Chris to do his best to try and reduce this cost so it was more affordable for the Naenae students and community.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approve the addition of a vest into the official school uniform.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel asked, next time Chris reports on attendance that he supports the actual numbers with the target numbers.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>Health and Safety Committee</span></h3>
<p><span class="font0">Chris shared the minutes of the meeting that was held this afternoon. Chris ran the meeting in Clare's absence and he will remain on the Committee on the Boards behalf. The Health and Safety Committee meet once a term. However, Chris will run an additional meeting this term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The biggest concern for the Committee at the moment is the tech equipment.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Chris will look for, update and maintain the Risk Register and this is to be brought to the Board once a quarter.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark11"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark12"></a>Wellbeing and Community Engagement Committee</span></h3>
<p><span class="font0">This Committee does not exist and will be removed from the Sub-Committees list.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark13"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark14"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the previous meeting</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the November 2024 Board meeting as a true and accurate record.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / Z Yee Liew</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark15"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark16"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Planning and Reporting Information for 2025. Chris is currently working on the Annual Plan and will send this to the Board once complete, ahead of approval by 31 March 2025.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">School Board elections. ACTION: The Board to think about how they want the election process run and discuss at the next meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chief Ombudsman. The Board and the school has been cleared.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Vibe Report 2024. This was well received.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark17"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark18"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 8:09pm.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / D Bowbyes </span><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 8:13pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark19"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark20"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span></h3></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">a) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Board agreed to leave the Presiding Member and Deputy Chair positions as they are.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">b) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Resource Committee Chair has been appointed.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">c) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Board agreed to fill the Board vacancy by selection. ACTION: The selection process will be confirmed and initiated soon after.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">d) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The 2025 Budget has been approved.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">e) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Delegations 2025. Daniel took the Board through the delegations policy document and proposed some changes. Chris agreed to refine the financial delegation figures and Daniel will refine wording around budgeted and pre-approved costs. Alos, li needs to be refined and discussed. Final document to be circulated and approved via email.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Chris confirmed that the school employed two part time fixed term staff members to manage the new school lunches (distribution, clean up, etc.). The school has been given $3,000 per term to help cover this extra cost.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark21"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark22"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Staff Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Kamaia's report was taken as read.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark23"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark24"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Liana spoke to the school lunches. The general feel from students is that they don't like the new lunches. Students do eat and enjoy the snacks.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The lunch containers are difficult to open and the food is in an aluminium container.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Liana was grateful to the Board for their offer of support with the 're-build' of the Rainbow Club.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Liana to come to the Board on progress of rebuilding the rainbow community and any support that the Board can provide.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Liana advised the Board that she will be away for the next meeting as she will be at Outward Bound.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Student Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">L Fecteau / L Parsons</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark25"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark26"></a>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub-committee reports</span><br><br><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark27"></a>Resource Committee</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The Resource Committee notes were read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel gave the Board a brief summary and update. The Budget and the variances were the main topics for discussion at the Resource Committee meeting. Refreshing the financial delegations and policies was discussed.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris noted that there were two sets of Resource Committee minutes tabled and asked that it be recorded that he does not agree with the appended (second) set of minutes.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board agreed that the minutes did not have to be accepted tonight.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Resource Committee to meet and come to an agreement regarding the minutes.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark28"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark29"></a>Marae Committee</span></h3>
<p><span class="font0">Alex will endeavour to get these minutes to the Board.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Zinh attended the meeting and gave the Board a quick summary. Zinh did share some concern regarding the Marae Committee protocols/process and wanted to better understand the roles of the members.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">f) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Due to time constraints, the School Policy Review schedule, Board Governance Manual and Board Plan will all be discussed at the next meeting.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">g) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Critical IT issues. The Board acknowledges the risk and agreed that the server and backups do need to get sorted. Daniel agreed to work with Chris to consider all options before bringing these back to the Resource Committee/BOT.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">h) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Vaping illegal on school grounds. Zinh requested more signage be put up around the school.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The car park in front of Bee Healthy is Naenae College property.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">j) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jackets to be sourced for the new Board members.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Meeting concluded at 9:20pm with a karakia.</span></p>
<div>
<p><span class="font0">Date:</span></p><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-February-2025-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-February-2025-Signed-1.jpg" alt="" style="width:118pt;height:36pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<p><span class="font0">Signed:</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">4</span></p>
</body>
</html>