<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:10pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:12pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:21pt Calibri, sans-serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 26 June 2025 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font0">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Chris Taylor (Principal), Daniel Bowbyes (Co-opted), Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Liana Fecteau (Student Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Apologies: </span><span class="font0">Zinh Yee Liew (Co-opted), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">In attendance: </span><span class="font0">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel shared a karakia. Milica opened the meeting and welcomed all those in attendance. Everyone present introduced themselves.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Milica asked the Board members if there were any additional conflicts-of-interest for the register. There was one addition.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2024 Department Reports</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Martin Laing - HOD Languages</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Successes:</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">o The impressive pass rates in Level 1 English</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">o The shift with Year 9s across the year</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">o Staff confidence with assessment requirements. External moderation improved. Challenges:</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">© CAAs explicit teaching required to prepare students</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">o The number of staff teaching English, difficult to keep in touch, geographic layout. Movement of staff between rooms (timetabling issue).</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">o Student placement from Whanau Heads - more communication and context required.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed further with Martin, the placement of students in classes. This process needs to slow down in order to place students as best as possible.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Support from the Board for the English department in the areas of BYOD and Al would be appreciated.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Anthony Yeo - HOD Arts &amp;&nbsp;Technology</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Anthony spoke about the challenges of continuity with speciality teachers for subjects like Hard Materials. Meredith was teaching Maths but jumped to Hard Materials/Tech, in a sole charge position. The department ideally needs half a teacher to be able to run Metalwork. Speciality teachers are hard to come by and costly.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Hospitality is a good news story. From one teacher and one class in 2023 to now three teachers, more classes and the approval to offer Level 3.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Gary has been working hard in Drama and is a fan of the Year 9 rotations.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Having a second teacher, Stephen Perry in the digital space is helpful.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Jessica Kim - HOD Maths</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris read Jessica's report in her absence.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Successes:</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">® Readiness for CAA, teachers are more confident with Numeracy, PLDs have played a key role in this</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">© Year 11 Numeracy pass rate (61.6% passed Level 1)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">© Improvement in Year 9 and 10 end of year results</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">o Progress in 2025 is pleasing.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Challenges:</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">® Level 1 Numeracy - many students face difficulties due to low attendance, low engagement and limited understanding of foundational maths</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">o Year 9 and 10 end of year results - significant number of students still below expected levels, underscoring the need for targeted interventions</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">@ Encouraging course selection. It is essential to encourage students to challenge themselves and choose Level 2 and 3 Calculus.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">7:50pm Martin and Anthony left the meeting.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed the Principal's request to employ an additional permanent Maths Teacher, going above the school's staffing allocation by one. The additional teacher would allow for more teaching time with the students that are struggling.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board questioned the need for a permanent placement versus fixed term. The Board were supportive of the additional Maths teacher and asked that Chris ensures proper process is followed with the appointment and advice is sought from NZSBA regarding the nature of the appointment (fixed term or permanent).</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Gratis payments were proposed to acknowledge the effort and going above and beyond the staff have put in to ensure smooth running of the admin block. The board agreed to recognise the additional effort and time staff have put in by granting 3 days of special leave to: Nadine, Jane, Karen and Chris.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The letter to the MOE regarding the enrolment scheme/zoning was approved. Chris to remove the last line of the letter and send on the Board's behalf.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris shared with the Board, recent professional development experiences. The Board noted that wellbeing funding for Principals is being removed.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / D Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark11"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark12"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Liana shared a verbal report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The LAR Council is now up and running. Liana is continuing work on inclusive representation on the Council and is finalising a terms of reference and person specifications. Multicultural Day was great.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Pride Week celebrations were great and a huge step forward for the kura.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Student Representative's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">L Fecteau / K Shepherd</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark13"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark14"></a>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub-committee reports</span><br><br><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark15"></a>Resource Committee</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel summarised the last Resource Committee meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the Resource Committee meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">D Bowbyes / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark16"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark17"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the previous meeting</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board fills the current parent representative vacancy by selection. Daniel Bowbyes to move from Co-opted to Parent Representative, by selection.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / K Shepherd</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Two amendments to be made to the previous meeting minutes and the Actions Register was updated.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the May 2025 Board meeting as a true and accurate record.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / L Parsons</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark18"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark19"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">None.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark20"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark21"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 9:32pm.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / C Taylor </span><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 9:53pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark22"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark23"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">BNZ bank signatories updated as per the mandate.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Motion: that the Naenae College Board of Trustees remove the current signatory Clare Marie Gibson (Business Manager) as a signatory of the BNZ bank account and to be replaced with Yvonne Manuel (Finance Manager).</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Moved:___C Taylor Seconded:M Zivanovic</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Funding application from Yvonne.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the board approves the funding application for $3,960for accommodation in Palmerston North for the upcoming Netball Tournament.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Loudeen asked the LAR Council and Student Mentors for three ideas to help with current challenges of the kura: CAAs, Maths and School Attendance.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Meeting concluded at 10:14pm with a karakia.</span></p>
<div>
<p><span class="font0">Signed:</span></p><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-26-June-2025-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-26-June-2025-Signed-1.jpg" alt="" style="width:77pt;height:42pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<div><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-26-June-2025-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-26-June-2025-Signed-2.jpg" alt="" style="width:297pt;height:38pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<p><span class="font0">4</span></p>
</body>
</html>