<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:10pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:12pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:21pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font3 { font:10pt Times New Roman, serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 2 May 2024 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font0">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative), Chris Taylor (Principal), Finn Bowbyes (Student Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">On Leave: </span><span class="font0">Taneora Ryall (Parent Representative)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">in attendance: </span><span class="font0">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Milica opened the meeting with a karakia.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was concise due to the recent start of the term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The key event this term is cultural evening.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Student Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / C Taylor</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Staff Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The staff have restarted the Waiata group, for singing and socialising together. This week and next week the staff PLD sessions are on Trauma Informed Practice - the first session was well received and the feedback has been positive. Chris is in full support of the Trauma Informed Practice sessions and gives thanks to Jane, Claire and Kamaia for running these.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The PLD sessions following, will be Treaty of Waitangi based.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Staff Representative Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Renata / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark11"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark12"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The report was concise due to the school holidays and only ten days of term have passed so far. Discussion on the great artwork from students was included. The artwork will be on display around the school in due course.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Discussion that the Term 1 Report Card is a great way for reflecting on annual plan goals and how we are tracking and was deemed valuable and insightful.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / K Renata</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The presence of a member of the public at the meeting was acknowledged by the Presiding Member, Milica. Mr Arie Joe introduced himself and said that he was in attendance to listen to the meeting and that he had nothing to raise or discuss.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Variance Report</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The results in the variance report are recognised as the work of three Principal's.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The information from the faculties has been summarised.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Wording of some of the goals makes them difficult to assess - they may be too broad in order to measure or it is fairly difficult to have definite evidence for. Those have been marked as incomplete, although it is understood that the intent behind those goals has been met.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The board agreed it is good to see that HOD/HOFs are more future focused with aspirational reporting and not just reporting on facts and figures. It is also great to hear about the high achieving students.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Loudeen expressed an interest to meet with the Pasifika Committee to learn more about their action plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board suggested meeting with the respective Committee representatives to hear about their plans and goals.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">SLT were working towards establishing a new Committee representing refugees/migrants. The Board agreed this would be a great thing to do.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Annual Plan 2023 Analysis of Variance Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark13"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark14"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub-committee reports</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The Resource Committee meeting notes have been summarised. The finances are in good stead. The Board commented that it was great to see the photos of the work done to the buildings and grounds - Chris will pass on their thanks to the Business Manager.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Milica to reach out to Taneora to confirm his interest in the Resource Committee + signatory.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Resource Committee Meeting minutes.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Shepherd / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Loudeen agreed to be the interim financial signatory for March 2024.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark15"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark16"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the previous meeting</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the March 2024 Board meeting as a true and accurate record. </span><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark17"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark18"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">No correspondence to table.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark19"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark20"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 7:19pm.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / C Taylor </span><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 8:08pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark21"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark22"></a>10. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span></h3></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">a) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The board considered previously received request from Taneora for this leave from the board to be approved for one month. The board agreed.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / F Bowbyes</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">b) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Official opening of admin block moved to Saturday 6 July 2024. There will be a dawn blessing followed by breakfast.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">c) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sport Uniform Audit - Karen wished to thank Yvonne for putting the sport uniform information together, the Board is happy with how the uniforms are being managed and maintained.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Shepherd/K Renata</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">d) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;School Uniform Review. The Board agreed that 'Students can wear any combination of items, of the official Naenae College uniform'.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Finn to ask the Student Council to write to NZ Uniform to share with them the College's position, that 'any student can wear any item of the listed official Naenae College uniform' and to remove any gender bias/labelling.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Shepherd / M Zivanovic </span><span class="font0">ACTION: Chris to share the SchoolDocs uniform policy at the next Board meeting for members to consider.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">e) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;BOT administration. Milica discussed:</span></p></li></ul>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0">a. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The new agenda format</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">b. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The suspension training that NZSTA is running - this is a great refresher for all on the board and all board members are highly encouraged to attend.</span></p></li>
<li>
<p><span class="font0">c. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Collating relevant information to start work on an 'operations manual' for the Board. Milica will clarify a few matters with NZSTA as part of this process.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Meeting concluded at 8:56pm with a karakia.</span></p>
<div>
<p><span class="font0">Signed:</span></p>
</div><br clear="all">
<div><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-2-May-2024-April-meeting-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-2-May-2024-April-meeting-Signed-1.jpg" alt="" style="width:72pt;height:39pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<div>
<p><span class="font0">Date:</span></p>
</div><br clear="all">
<div><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-2-May-2024-April-meeting-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-2-May-2024-April-meeting-Signed-2.jpg" alt="" style="width:36pt;height:28pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
</body>
</html>