<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN"
	"http://www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-html40-19980424/loose.dtd">
<html>
<head><meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"><meta name="generator" content="Apeos C3570">
<style type="text/css">
 table.main {}
 tr.row {}
 td.cell {}
 div.block {}
 div.paragraph {}
 .font0 { font:11pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font1 { font:14pt Calibri, sans-serif; }
 .font2 { font:22pt Calibri, sans-serif; }

</style>
</head>
<body><a name="caption1"></a>
<h1><a name="bookmark0"></a><span class="font2" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark1"></a>NAENAE COLLEGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES</span></h1>
<h2><a name="bookmark2"></a><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark3"></a>Minutes of the Board of Trustees Meeting</span><br><br><span class="font1" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark4"></a>Thursday 27 March 2025 at 6.30pm</span></h2>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Present: </span><span class="font0">Milica Zivanovic (Presiding Member), Karen Shepherd (Deputy Chair), Derek Saumolia (Parent Representative), Loudeen Parsons (Parent Representative), Chris Taylor (Principal), Kamaia Renata (Staff Representative), Daniel Bowbyes (Co-opted)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Apologies: </span><span class="font0">Liana Fecteau (Student Representative), Zinh Yee Liew (Co-opted)</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">In attendance: </span><span class="font0">Nadine Bowen (Board Secretary)</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark5"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark6"></a>1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welcome</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Karen shared a karakia. Milica opened the meeting and welcomed all those in attendance. Milica asked the Board members if there were any additional conflicts-of-interest for the register. There were none.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark7"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark8"></a>2. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Principal's Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Report was read and received.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Principal spoke to the 2025 Priority Actions/Annual Plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Karen asked Chris about New Zealand Histories Curriculum potentially being removed from the compulsory curriculum. Chris said that NZ History could still be taught but if removed, would not be able to be assessed. Chris said that he would 'fight' to keep NZ History in the curriculum.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Derek asked if the chronic attendance reduction could be attributed to the Guidance team? Chris agreed, the reduction in chronic attendance is concrete evidence that the Board's decision to grow the guidance team was a good one. In the next Board meeting when the 2024 variance report is presented, this will be highlighted.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel asked Chris for annual attendance statistics, trajectory information, etc. At this stage the figures are currently term by term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris confirmed that the numbers in the Annual Plan are the attendance targets.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris does not want to set unrealistic targets, particularly when there is potentially a teacher strike looming and this would significantly affect attendance.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Non-attendance for medical reasons (including mental health) is classified as unjustified absence. There is uncertainty around how to deal with medical absences.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Milica asked about initiatives/plans for improving attendance and achievement. The Strategic Plan document has links to the initiatives that are being implemented. Other initiatives include letters for sending home to caregivers - letters tailored to each category of non-attendance, PLD for staff (e.g. classroom practice, trauma informed practice, dealing with disclosures, ADHD), attendance at cluster meetings with other schools, working with the local Intermediate schools etc.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Kamaia is responsible for reports of concern. The Critical Incident Team is engaged and takes action when required.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: The Principal is to provide regular updates for the Board on the progress with the priority actions, each term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Pasifika Action Plan to be added to the Strategic Plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approve the 2025 Priority Actions/Annual Plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel said that the Principal's Report was a good read. Great to see a good spread of sporting events. Was there anything not going so well (lowlights) that the Board should be aware of?</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">There had been an incident on Tuesday, with a few stand downs as a result.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The school has received a small increase (.6) in staffing/funding.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Ministry of Education has contacted the school regarding a zone/enrolment scheme. They will want to speak with Board in due course.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Karen asked and Chris confirmed the schools process for advertising for Teacher Aides.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Principal's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark9"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark10"></a>3. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Staff Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Kamaia did not submit a written report this month so was open to questions from the Board. Staff are tired and feeling the effects of an eleven week term.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The 'new to teaching' staff are very skilled. Notable mentions are Mackenzie and Stavros -relational and skilled practitioners.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Incident on Tuesday gave staff an opportunity to practice what to do in a situation of threat.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Staff morale is mostly good. People are tired. The staff have their first social event of the year next Friday. Some staff continue to socialise outside of school and participate in sports together.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Loudeen asked that next meeting the Board is updated on the ethnic minority whanau in our community.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Chris briefed the Board on the positive engagement with the ethnic minority community -Tabloid Sports Day was moved for Ramadan, a prayer room had been made available but has since been withdrawn due to student misbehaviour. A couple of staff members have reached out to a local mosque for support with times of prayer etc.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Staff Representative's Report.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Renata/K Shepherd</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark11"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark12"></a>4. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Student Representative Report</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">None.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark13"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark14"></a>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sub-committee reports</span><br><br><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark15"></a>Resource Committee</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the February 2025 Resource Committee meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">D Bowbyes / M Zivanovic</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel summarised the March meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The financial statements weren't ready for the March meeting - the school accountants have had a change in staffing.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">There is a meeting next week with the Ministry of Education regarding the 10 year property plan (of which the five year plan comes out of). Chris, Milica and Daniel will be at this meeting. Work on the marae building will likely be considered in the five year property plan.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Daniel met with Gil from AlSCorp regarding the server and backups. It was a good meeting and Daniel is waiting on AlSCorp's response to some further questions. The backups are the priority at this stage.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The order of the roofing works has shifted a little due to asbestos and scaffolding works.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Karen discussed putting aside contingency planning dollars. The Asset Register was good to see but further actions are required to assist with planning asset replacement/maintenance.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The next Resource Committee meeting falls in the school holidays. Due to unavailability, there will be no Resource Committee in April.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Karen will email regarding signatories, signing off bank reconciliations. The management report can be circulated via email.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark16"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark17"></a>Marae Committee</span></h3>
<p><span class="font0">The meeting minutes will be discussed at the next meeting, when Zinh is in attendance, as she was the only one present who can speak to these minutes.</span></p>
<h3><a name="bookmark18"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark19"></a>Health and Safety Committee</span></h3>
<p><span class="font0">The last meeting minutes were tabled at the last Board meeting. The next Health and Safety Committee meeting is on Thursday 3 April.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark20"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark21"></a>6. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Minutes of the previous meeting</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the minutes of the February 2025 Board meeting as a true and accurate record.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">D Bowbyes / C Taylor</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;">Actions Register</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Board vacancy - community notified, nothing received to date. Action for next meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed the upcoming school board election process. In the past this was administered by the Principal's Assistant. Due to current workload Chris and Kamaia suggested that this year, an outside organisation takes care of the process.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">There is money in the Board's budget to cover costs.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approves outsourcing the school board elections process, to an approximate cost of $8,000. Chris to come back to the Board should the cost be significantly different.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / D Saumolia</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Health and Safety, Risk Register - this should be tabled quarterly. Health and safety meetings take place twice a term, 3:30pm on a Thursday.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Chris to invite Derek to the Health &amp;&nbsp;Safety Committee meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Chris to add Justin's MOE reports to the Board meeting packs.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Milica has not had a chance to work on the Board calendar. She will do so in April.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark22"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark23"></a>7. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Correspondence</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approve Stephen Perry's leave request.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / K Shepherd</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board approve Brenda Morrison's leave request.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">C Taylor / K Shepherd</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board discussed the EOI received and decided to leave things as they are until the upcoming elections.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Milica will make contact with the interested community member and advise next steps.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">NZSBA community engagement course was attended by Milica. The Board discussed events where they could attend and engage more with the community e.g. to involve the community in the strategic plan. For example, the possibility of the Board attending the Careers Expo in Term 3 was discussed. If Board members had name badges they may be approached/be more approachable to community members. Loudeen talked about 'lifting our game' in sharing what we know regarding things like attendance and how the school is addressing the priorities. It's important that we give the 'Pacific data to the Pacific parents' -enabling them with the data to help with change.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: Add Board community engagement to the Actions Register for further discussion.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Energy Survey. Completed by the Business Manager.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">SchoolDocs Policy Review - the Board assigned the following members to review policies: Risk Management - Daniel</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Healthcare - Derek</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Health, Safety and Welfare - Karen</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Safety Management System - Karen</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Worker Engagement, Participation and Representation - Chris</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Recording and Reporting Accidents, Incidents and Illness - Chris.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTION: First Board meeting in Term 2 the Board will assign the Term 2 scheduled policy reviews.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark24"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark25"></a>8. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 8:42pm.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">M Zivanovic / C Taylor</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 8:56pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark26"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark27"></a>9. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;General Business</span><br><br><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark28"></a>Naenae College Schedule of Delegations 2025</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">The wording regarding delegated authority to the Deputy Principal in special circumstances was discussed and agreed. Daniel edited the document accordingly in the meeting.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">The financial delegation to the Principal was reviewed and the figures agreed. This was also edited directly into the document by Daniel.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Delegations retained by the Board - 1.(1) 'significant or sensitive' was agreed.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">Board delegations to the Principal - 3.(f) words after (eg payroll) were removed.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board accepts the Naenae College Schedule of Delegations 2025 as discussed, making the necessary amendments.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">D Bowbyes / L Parsons</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">It was resolved that a request be made to One Foundation for the delivery and facilitation of LifelOl programs for the amount of fifteen thousand, six hundred and forty dollars ($15,640.00) excluding GST.</span></p>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">K Shepherd / D Saumolia</span></p>
<p><span class="font0">ACTIONS: Board to discuss the Governance Manual and Plan/Calendar at the next meeting.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<h3><a name="bookmark29"></a><span class="font0" style="font-weight:bold;"><a name="bookmark30"></a>10. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;PEB</span></h3></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0" style="font-style:italic;">Moved that the Board goes in to Committee at 9:46pm.</span></p>
<ul style="list-style:none;"><li>
<p><span class="font0" style="text-decoration:underline;">11. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;M Zivanovic / C Taylor </span><span class="font0">The Board moved out of Committee at 10:04pm.</span></p></li></ul>
<p><span class="font0">Meeting concluded at 10:05pm with a karakia.</span></p>
<div>
<p><span class="font0">Signed:</span></p><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-March-2025-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-March-2025-Signed-1.jpg" alt="" style="width:207pt;height:40pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
<div><img src="BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-March-2025-Signed_files/BOT-Meeting-Minutes-27-March-2025-Signed-2.jpg" alt="" style="width:123pt;height:33pt;">
</div><br clear="all">
</body>
</html>